# LLM usage policy

## Definitions

- *User generated content (noun)*: In the context of the SwiftCrossUI project, the term "user generated content" refers to pull requests, issues, comments, and Discord messages
- *LLM usage (noun)*: User generated content that contains LLM generated text/code or refers to ideas/'facts' generated by an LLM
- *Author (noun)*: In the context of user generated content, the author is the user who has submitted the content and would otherwise be presumed to be the sole author of the content.
- *Understand [code] (verb)*: In the context of this policy, to understand a piece of code means to be able to accurately explain the code's function and purpose when asked.

> [!NOTE]
> The Google AI overview is excluded from this LLM policy when used in good faith as a search overview. Interacting with the overview's chat box or specifically prompting Google search to get chatbot-style functionality counts as LLM usage.

> [!NOTE]
> Code completion based on LLMs/generative AI is included in this policy, although in most cases the only effect of that is that authors will have to disclose usage of such code completion, and will have to take additional care to understand the output of such code completion.

## Rules

1. All LLM usage in issues/pull requests MUST be disclosed in the issue/pull request description, or if you're not the author of the issue/pull request, in your first comment that contains LLM usage.
2. Pull request authors MUST understand all code in their submission.
3. In the absence of understanding—whether through the author being out of their depth, or having produced the code themselves through trial and error—rigorous testing MUST be performed and documented.
4. In the case of LLM generated code, the author MUST additionally understand why any given change was made.
5. Pull request/issue descriptions MUST NOT be written by LLMs. Use of AI-based translation tools is allowed if you are not proficient enough in English to write the description directly, but such usage must be reported, and the pre-translation description MUST NOT be written by an LLM.

## Enforcement

We understand that violations of these rules may be made in good faith. As such we will not pursue any serious enforcement actions. We do however reserve the right to **ignore issues/pull requests that clearly violate these rules** (with a quick comment explaining why we are ignoring the issue/pull request, and explaining what can be done to rectify the violation).

## Motivation

This LLM policy was developed collaboratively in the replies to [issue #583](https://github.com/moreSwift/swift-cross-ui/issues/583). In particular, stackotter summarized his thoughts on the matter in [his first reply](https://github.com/moreSwift/swift-cross-ui/issues/583#issuecomment-4671091216).

A key point that led us to create this LLM policy is that, like any other open source project, maintainer time is a limited resource.

In the context of pull requests,

- Reviewing a pull request (regardless of who has written it) can sometimes take longer than it would take for a maintainer to implement the changes themselves.
  - In such cases reviewing the pull request is only worth the reviewer's time under the assumption that a thorough review will help the pull request author improve as an open source contributor, benefitting the wider software development ecosystem. Unsupervised/minimally supervised LLMs effectively remove learning from the pull request review cycle; the pull request author doesn't learn to properly review their LLM's output, and the LLM doesn't learn from its mistakes (because in its next PR it will likely have a new context window).
- By requiring full understanding (or rigorous and documented testing) of all submitted code we aim to reduce the amount of review time required for pull requests by encouraging contributors to review and verify the output of their LLMs (within their abilities).

In the context of issues,

- Unsupervised agents often produce less useful issue descriptions than humans. LLMs are good at producing descriptions that appear structured, and descriptions that appear detailed, but they often repeat themselves a lot, wasting maintainer/contributor time. Concise issue descriptions written by humans often provide just as much information in our experience, if not more.
- Agents sometimes try to resolve an issue themselves, and then report the last thing that they struggled with, omitting the reason that they were attempting to do something in the first place. Humans can of course do the same, but we've seen it happen more often with agents.

In the context of conversations,

- When a participant in a conversation is clearly using an LLM to answer questions or argue a point, it can come off as quite disrespectful. If someone in the conversation wanted to consult an LLM, they would do so themselves.
- The maintainers and core contributors of this project are here because of the human connections we have formed. Many of us are happy to spend our limited time on difficult problems, but only if we know that we're helping someone who values our work enough to engage in conversations with us directly.

All in all, we want to allow contributors to use LLMs if they desire (regardless of our personal views on LLMs), because LLM usage is already widespread, but we don't want contributors to use LLMs in a way that trades off contributor effort for our limited maintainer/core contributor review time.
